All right.
So this is going to be a fun lesson because we're actually going to complete a feature that we literally
started hours and hours ago, way back when.
So you may recall that when we were building the front page, the landing page of this website, we
built this entire form in order to allow the user to provide a role as well as a location.
And the intent there was when they click the search button, we would navigate them to the search page
and show them the results that matter.
And of course, the role they entered here is basically the skills and qualifications that we want to
use to fill the two jobs on the right.
So as a reminder of how this functionality works, the user can provide a role here like Java and then
a location here like Seattle.
And when they click Search, we take them to the job results page and we add on the query params right
here at the end role equals Java and location equals Seattle.
Now, right now we're not doing anything with those query params, so we're seeing all 100 jobs rendered
right here.
But the whole reason we set up that search form was to use this information on this page.
Now we have built no kind of location filtering feature in our app, and to be quite honest, we're
probably not going to simply because that would be more lessons that wouldn't teach us anything new
in view.
But the last thing that I want to show you here is kind of tying this app together by using this piece
of information right here to automatically filter to jobs right here and also provide a pre-populated
value for the skills and qualifications box, because we do not want the user to enter this value twice,
otherwise it defeats the entire purpose of that original page.
We want the user to navigate here, see the jobs and see the time they entered automatically populated
in this box.
So one simple way that we can do this is to use our on mounted function, which as a reminder, invokes
a function whenever a component mounts.
And in that function that we provide to our mounted, we can get access to a route, we can get access
to our route using the use route function from view router and then we can extract this role query param.
And one really simple solution is to simply commit a mutation to the View X Store, the exact same mutation
we have been using, which is update skill search term and give the store whatever value is right here.
Right.
And with that the store will update that property, which means the filter jobs getter will rerun it,
which means it should automatically show the jobs that match that search term right here.
As soon as the user lands on this page, the only question that remains is what component do we put
that on mounted logic in?
So my first approach was to try to pack that logic into the job filter sidebar skills component, but
that didn't actually work as well as I anticipated.
And the reason is because the component is actually hidden within this accordion component.
And from the perspective of the on mounted lifecycle hook, that skills component isn't technically
mounted.
When the page loads, it only becomes mounted to the DOM when we expand the accordion for the first
time.
So I saw this kind of weird behavior where the jobs would not filter, and then as soon as the component
opened, that's when they would filter on the right hand side.
And that was a pretty jarring, inconvenient user experience.
So the key takeaway is we're not going to be able to put that on mounted logic in the in the skills
component because it just is hidden when the entire page loads.
However, we are going to be able to put this logic in our job filter sidebar component, because that's
this entire container right there that is going to be present immediately when this route loads, which
means it's going to kick off that logic of parsing the route and talking to the View store and it should
automatically update to jobs on the right.
So let's see how we're going to implement this.
So I'm going to go back to this code.
And I'll begin by opening up a job filters sidebar.
So here is our component where we're putting together all of those smaller child components, and we
actually put so much logic in here that we actually removed the need for a setup method for once again
going to need our setup method back.
So let's add it right here.
And of course we're going to need to run a function on component mount.
So immediately I'm going to import the on mounted.
Function from view.
And we know we're going to need to invoke on mounted in setup.
And as a reminder the way this works is we pass it a function and VAR will automatically run it when
the component mounts.
So we pass it in an invoked function.
So for now, I'm simply going to define that function right here in line.
I'm going to call it pass skills search term.
And it's going to be an arrow function and I'm going to pass in the on invoked reference to that function
right here.
All right.
Now, the only thing that remains, of course, is filling out the body of this function to do what
we want.
So what do we want to do here?
The first thing we want to do is to talk to our route, object to find out if there are any query params
present.
So in order to get access to the root, I'm going to need to import.
My use route composable function and that is going to come from Vue router, right?
Totally separate library that we have not used in a while.
And we can actually probably put this logic entirely within the arrow function.
There's no need to connect to the root right here in the main body of setup.
It should work right here in line as well.
So Connect Root is going to be the invocation of use root that's going to get us our root object.
And it's been a while since we explored this root object.
So I'll just get to it quick.
On our root object there is a query property and that gray property returns an object with all of the
properties in the query params.
So our property from from the browser is called role.
Right.
Just as a quick reminder right here, it is called the role and we're breaking because of my editor.
But right here you can see it's called role.
So that's going to be the property that's available on this object.
So I'm going to access role.
Now keep in mind, if the user, for example, does not provide a value in the search box or if they
navigate to the job results page without any query params, for example, if they go directly to that
URL, this property will not exist and therefore this will evaluate to undefined.
So what I'm going to do is if it evaluates to undefined, which is a false value, I'm going to default
it to an empty string.
And that way I always have something to commit to.
My mutation, my update skills, search for mutation.
I don't want to send the view store and undefined value because that is going to break the logic of
how my skills search term view property stores things.
It's meant to be a string, so I want this to be guaranteed to be an actual string, either the valid
string or a backup fallback of an empty string.
And I'm going to assign this, of course, to a constant called role, because this represents the role
the user searched for.
Technically, you can also use the word skills term or whatever is best said.
It's kind of a little bit annoying because we're using two different bits of terminology, right, skill
search versus role, but it's the same idea.
It's whatever they're curious in searching for in the jobs titles.
All right.
So now we have the role, which represents the string that I want to send to my bookstore.
So the next thing I need is going to be my store, as well as the mutation that I want to commit, which
is going to be update skills search term.
So right here, I'm going to import my use store function to get access to the store.
And that's going to come from the U.S. In addition to that, in order to talk to the store, I'm going
to need to get my key.
So import key.
And that is going to come from the source directory and the store directory.
It's indexed to form.
And then finally, I'm going to need my mutation and my mutation is called update skills search term
and that is going to come from the source directory store and the constants file.
All right.
So now right here in line, I'm going to create my store or rather get reference to it.
So can store equals use store passing in my key.
All right.
And then how do we commit the mutation to the store?
We have to invoke the commit method and pass on the mutation we want.
The mutation we want is update skills, search term.
And as a reminder of the way that mutation works is it expects a second argument.
That second argument is the actual skill search term, which now we're not getting from the input we're
getting from the queer params which themselves are going to be based on the search term the user provided
on the home page.
If we've have access to that right here, it's either the actual value such as Java or an empty string.
It doesn't matter which one I have.
If it falls back to an empty string, everything is going to work just normally because we're going
to overwrite skill search term with an empty string, which is its default value anyway, which will
show all the jobs anyway.
So right here I'm going to provide my second argument, which is the role itself.
And that is a strength.
All right.
So as soon as the job filter cyber component mounts, it will run this logic.
It will get the role and it will commit a mutation to update the skills search term.
If that is a valid string like Java, that will in turn cause my getters to rerun and use the filter
jobs getter to use that term to filter.
And that should work for us perfectly.
So now I'm going to navigate back to the browser.
Going to go back here and I'm going to search for Java and I'm going to even leave this blank because
we're not using it.
And so I'm going to search and look what we have here Java coder, Java Engineer, JavaScript Ninja,
which also works because Java there, JavaScript, Java and Java associate, etc..
So it's working perfectly and it's going to work.
If Java is uppercase or lowercase.
I can just prove that to you again because we are doing the comparisons if the user searches for Java.
There we go.
You can see it still works.
And of course, because our skills component is directly connected to the view extra state, if we expand
this, you guessed it, we're automatically going to have it populated with Java.
All right.
And the beautiful part about this, of course, is the user can provide this URL to somebody else.
And as soon as the user navigates to this page, even if it's not directly coming from the homepage,
as long as they have the URL with these query params, if I do a hard refresh on this page, you're
going to see it's going to work the exact same way because on component mount, the component is going
to read this data and use it to update the book store, which will cause these jobs to update.
All right.
So it's kind of fun because this is a feature that we've basically been like that's been lying dormant
for literally like tens of hours.
And we finally completed it.
We finally kind of connected all the dots across the app, starting from our main page right here to
the final product right here.
All right.
So lots of cool progress.
This has been pretty cool.
And in the very next lesson, we're going to write a test for the new functionality we just added.